frontend/src/app/voice-donation/IntroText.mdx, before:

Here you can donate a short recording of your voice in the context of our Unmute Voice Donation Project, an <span className="text-green">open-source text-to-speech initiative</span>.
We are looking for pre-made voices to include alongside the open-source release of
the Kyutai TTS (coming soon). By sharing a short recording of your voice, you
help Kyutai to:

- Provide voices for our open-science text-to-speech (TTS) models.
- Build open vocal datasets that anyone can access and reuse.

We value your privacy and transparency. Before proceeding, please review
the following carefully:

- Your voice recordings and data including voice embeddings
  (representations of vocal characteristics) may be collected,
  processed, and published openly by Kyutai. The resulting datasets will
  be publicly available under the Creative Commons CC0 license or any
  similar open-source license, allowing anyone to freely reuse them,
  subject to their compliance and with our Acceptable Use Policy.
- Your voice may be made available for use with Kyutai Text-To-Speech.
  As a result, third parties could generate synthetic speech that
  closely resembles your voice. After public release, each third-party
  user will be directly responsible for its own use of your voice
  recording. If you do not want people to reuse your voice and reproduce
  it, you should not submit your voice recording.

For more information, see the [Terms of Use](/voice-donation/terms-of-use) and
[Privacy Policy](/voice-donation/privacy-policy).

## Verification

<div className="w-full flex flex-row mt-2">
  <div className="border-1 border-green py-2 px-4 text-center">
    Verification sentences
  </div>
  <div className="border-1 border-green py-2 px-4 text-center grow-2">
    Whatever you want (last 10 seconds will be used)
  </div>
</div>

To verify that this is your voice and not a pre-recorded sample, we will
ask you to read a short text out loud. Afterwards, you can say whatever
you want. Have fun with it! The TTS is good at reproducing the tone and
mannerisms of the voice. The last 10 seconds of your recording will be
used as the voice sample. Try to use the same tone throughout the
recording to make it easier to verify that it's you.

Commit message:

Add tools to process voice donations (#107)
* Add create_voice_donation_table script

* Add script for trimming voice donation clips

* Fix typo

* Change intro text to reflect release

* Add copy_approved_voice_donations.py

* Make Pyright happy

frontend/src/app/voice-donation/IntroText.mdx, after:

Here you can donate a short recording of your voice in the context of our Unmute Voice Donation Project, an <span className="text-green">open-source text-to-speech initiative</span>.
These voices will be made available for use with Kyutai TTS.
You can find the already-released voices in the [voice repository](https://huggingface.co/kyutai/tts-voices).
By sharing a short recording of your voice, you help Kyutai to:

- Provide voices for our open-science text-to-speech (TTS) models.
- Build open vocal datasets that anyone can access and reuse.

We value your privacy and transparency. Before proceeding, please review
the following carefully:

- Your voice recordings and data including voice embeddings
  (representations of vocal characteristics) may be collected,
  processed, and published openly by Kyutai. The resulting datasets will
  be publicly available under the Creative Commons CC0 license or any
  similar open-source license, allowing anyone to freely reuse them,
  subject to their compliance and with our Acceptable Use Policy.
- Your voice may be made available for use with Kyutai Text-To-Speech.
  As a result, third parties could generate synthetic speech that
  closely resembles your voice. After public release, each third-party
  user will be directly responsible for its own use of your voice
  recording. If you do not want people to reuse your voice and reproduce
  it, you should not submit your voice recording.

For more information, see the [Terms of Use](/voice-donation/terms-of-use) and
[Privacy Policy](/voice-donation/privacy-policy).

## Verification

<div className="w-full flex flex-row mt-2">
  <div className="border-1 border-green py-2 px-4 text-center">
    Verification sentences
  </div>
  <div className="border-1 border-green py-2 px-4 text-center grow-2">
    Whatever you want (last 10 seconds will be used)
  </div>
</div>

To verify that this is your voice and not a pre-recorded sample, we will
ask you to read a short text out loud. Afterwards, you can say whatever
you want. Have fun with it! The TTS is good at reproducing the tone and
mannerisms of the voice. The last 10 seconds of your recording will be
used as the voice sample. Try to use the same tone throughout the
recording to make it easier to verify that it's you.
